My name is Aldin Dervisevic and my student number is s3707846. I can speak four languages fluently, those 4 languages being English, Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian. My highest level of education is year 12 VCE. My background is Bosnian, but I’m born and raised in Australia. I’m passionate about sports, with my favourite sport being basketball. My hobbies are playing basketball and listening to Bosnian music. Although I don’t have a specific area of interest in I.T, I enjoy using different kinds of technology/devices such as the internet and mobile devices. If I were to choose a favourite app, it would without a doubt be the messenger app, as I love the concept of being able to chat with friends in an instant, receiving notifications when a friend appears online and other cool features within the app. Currently, I have no experience in the I.T industry. However, hopefully after completing this bachelor, or maybe even during the bachelor, I would like to get a bit of experience working at an I.T company. I think this is important because it will give me an idea of what to expect in the real world, how to approach and it and it will also give me some idea of what I might do in the future.

Firstly, something as simple as making sure everyone has a copy of their results, is a good place to start. For instance, if you want to make a group/team of four, something that can be done is for those 4 people to share with each other their results, that way each member of the group, has an idea of what type of people they’re going to be working with. A benefit of this is that people can quickly look at other people’s results, which saves time compared to if everyone were to discuss about themselves. In addition, taking the results into consideration can help in terms of assigning tasks.

The mobile developer position requires you to be able to design and create mobile applications according to the customers/business needs. When creating these mobile applications, your goal is exceptional user experience, as you want nothing less but whoever is using your app to be able to do what they want, as smoothly as possible, minimizing problems. However, you also need to regularly check your apps and decide what are the positive and negative features of them, and how you can improve the applications. A key part to this is constantly seeking feedback from users, taking it into consideration and implementing it. You must be able to work collectively with others in groups.


Industry Data

1. My Ideal job was a mobile app developer (developer). Based on the data given by Burning Glass, the developer position was near the bottom of the list, suggesting that in terms of demand from employers, it’s not something many employers are looking for, which I was disappointed and shocked to see.

2. I.T specific skills required for mobile app developer position
	. UX/UI Design skills
	. Ability to program in several languages such as Java, PHP and Python
	. Having a degree in Computer science or similar area


General Skills required for mobile app developer position
	. Able to communicate with others effectively
	. Problem solving skills
	. Have the ability to work in a team


a) 
Among the list of skills provided by the Burning Glass data, the java programming language ranks very high in the list. In terms of demand from employers, it ranks third in the list, indicating that the java programming language is clearly a technical skill which many employers seek in possible employees.

UX/UI design skills, identified as “graphic design” in the list supplied by Burning Glass, ranks reasonably high among the list of technical skills. Although it’s not in the top 4-5 skills within the list, it’s placement suggests that it’s still relatively important, as being able to design apps which are user-friendly, without a doubt, is one of several technical skills employers would be searching for.

Having a degree in Computer Science or similar area is not within the list of I.T skills provided by Burning Glass, however, this doesn’t necessarily mean it’s not important, as some employers may only hire people who have a recognised qualification in a specific area of I.T.

b)

Firstly, communication skills is ranked at the top of the list provided by Burning Glass, which clearly indicates that it’s a skill that majority of, if not all employers want to see in their employees. It’s no surprise as being able to communicate effectively with your fellow peers is important in team work.

Secondly, problem solving skills ranks second in the list supplied by Burning Glass, meaning that it’s obviously a necessary skill expected by employers. Employers want people who are able to identify any problems that may arise, recognize how they can be fixed and implement solutions to fix the problems.

Lastly, teamwork ranks quite high, to be exact, fifth among the list of general skills provided by Burning Glass. Teamwork, is one of the most commonly known traits and is one looked for across many, if not all companies. Especially for the mobile app developer position, you must be able to work with other people at the same time, meaning communication is extremely important.

c)
Based on the data supplied by Burning Glass, the three highest ranked I.T specific skills which are not apart of my list for required I.T specific skills are:

. SQL
. JavaScript
. Microsoft Windows

d)
Based on the data provided by Burning Glass, the three highest ranked general skills which are not apart of my list for required general skills are:

. Organisational skills
. Writing 
. Troubleshooting

3. 
After looking at the Burning Glass data, my opinion still remains the same on my ideal job. My ideal job, the mobile app developer was low in the list provided, but because of the skills required, both the IT and general skills are ranked relatively high in the data, this led me to the conclusion that in the future, if I were to look at a different job, it would definitely benefit me as many other positions share some similar skills/qualities to the mobile app developer position, which would support me in transitioning to a different job, as I’m also able to bring along and use my knowledge and skills there.

IT Technologies

Chosen Topic: Natural Language processing and chatterbots

What does it do? 

. Natural Language processing is an area in the computer science field, which is about how computers/machines interact with human (everyday) languages, specifically, how to program computers or devices such as chatbots so that they’re able to process lots of human language data. In other words, a chatbot can be viewed as an interface which a human interacts with, and the technique the chatbot uses is called “natural language processing”, which is what enables it to have a conversation in the same language as the user.

. Natural language processing and chatterbots are becoming more common. A good example is Siri, which is found on iPhones and iPads. Essentially, Siri is a personal helper. You activate Siri by holding down the button on an iPhone, and then saying something. Siri listens to your input and processes it. Siri then speaks back to you, and also provides written text based on whatever you said or asked it. Not only is Siri capable of processing “human language”, but it’s also quite useful for having the ability to do other tasks like set reminders, alarms, call people and check the weather for you, making it a reliable personal assistant.  

Natural language processing allows humans to communicate effectively with machines. A good example is phone self-service machines, which are commonly used within retail, government services and banks. When you call a government service such as Centrelink, for instance, a machine will pick up your call and start to ask for your details like your customer access number. This is then followed by the machine asking you what’s the reason for your call, as this allows it to transfer you to a particular department, where an actual human will be speaking with you. A reason behind this may be that the people who work at Centrelink are far too busy to answer every single person’s call, hence the machine answers, collects the essential information, and puts people to wait until someone is available. Alternatively, it may also be the fact that the phone self-service is more cost-efficient in comparison to hiring and paying more employees to do the same thing.

Some benefits of implementing these machines within an organisation are: they are quick, intelligent and direct customers to appropriate resources if they have specific queries. Also, something to consider is that unlike humans, machines don’t complain about working conditions such as long hours and pay. However, it’s important to remember that these machines are not flawless, as there may be cases where the machine may misinterpret what the person has said, which can lead to people becoming confused and frustrated at the same time.

. Bots are always changing and with no doubt will change in the near future. Currently, natural language processing technology such as self-service machines are able to engage with humans in a simple conversation and generally, are able to understand what is being said to them and know how to respond. However, when things start to get more complex, it may have difficulty responding to or helping a customer with their queries. For example, if a person wants to order food over the phone, but requests “gluten free” only, the machine may have trouble understanding this and knowing what to do, as it may have only been designed for simple conversation. One of the many ways in which bots will be evolving in the near future, is by creating bots which are capable of better reflecting complex ‘human language’ phrases, words and patterns.

What is the likely impact? 

The likely impact of natural language processing and chatterbots is that many people may be left jobless and replaced by chatterbots. For example, people who work in retail, banking or similar industries where customer service is extremely important to a business’ success, are the ones who are most at risk. One of the reasons for this is the advantages associated with implementing natural language processing technology. This type of technology costs less than paying employees to perform customer service roles. Not only is this type of technology cost-efficient, but it’s also quick to answer, doesn’t show up to work late or complain about work conditions such as pay or long hours. It seems quite clear that when we take these things into account that these machines are a preferable choice over people. However, a problem this creates is that people are at risk of being replaced by machines, and if they are, what does this mean? Will employees need to prove they’re better than a machine in order to keep their position or will they simply be dismissed and be forced to find new jobs? Considering the current era in which we live in, finding a job is quite difficult, for people of various age groups, only making things harder for the upcoming generations. Currently, many businesses use chatbots, and it’s no surprise as they are inexpensive and provide many benefits. If future businesses follow this trend of technology, the potential impact may be that a large number of people will struggle to hold onto their jobs as they’re at risk of being replaced.

How will this affect you? 

This particular trend of technology has some level of impact on my daily life. This is because I often use natural language processing technology. For example, I use computer software such as Microsoft Word to complete my university work. Microsoft Word uses natural language processing and the way it does this is by detecting spelling and grammatical errors and providing solutions as to how to fix them, allowing you to correct any errors you make. This is quite relevant to me, as there are times where I’m required to write essays or reports, hence the natural language processing technique used by the Microsoft Word software is rather convenient. One of the things that I’ve noticed will be different as natural language processing and chatbots become increasingly popular is that many of the questions people have, are likely to be answered by machines, rather than people.

It’s an unusual thought/idea, but when we consider the benefits associated with implementing these particular machines within businesses, then it seems like the chances of this happening will be high, which wouldn’t be a surprise to me. In regard to how my friends or family may be affected by this type of technology, one way may be the way they search for things. For instance, if my friend wanted to check the score of a basketball game on Google, rather than doing it the standard way of typing, he decides to use the voice search feature, something is which is becoming more popular. This applies to some iPhone users, who love interacting with Siri, as it’s capable of doing multiple things like calling people, setting reminders etc by using voice search, making it a popular choice. In short, natural language processing will affect me in my daily life, but only to a certain degree.

