Personal information

My name is Aldin Dervisevic and my student number is s3707846. I can speak four languages fluently, those 4 languages being English, Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian. My highest level of education is year 12 VCE. My background is Bosnian, but I’m born and raised in Australia. I’m passionate about sports, with my favourite sport being basketball. My hobbies are playing basketball and listening to Bosnian music. Although I don’t have a specific area of interest in I.T, I enjoy using different kinds of technology/devices such as the internet and mobile devices. In terms of experience, I don’t have any ‘work experience’ in the I.T industry, however, I have experience with using everyday computer software such as Microsoft Word and knowledge on operating mobile devices such as iPhones.

Roles

Currently, we haven’t defined any roles for any of the group members. Although there are no specific roles, we have collectively decided on what sections each group member will be working on, ensuring that the work is equally divided amongst the 4 of us. I’ve chosen to work on the “Roles” and “Group Processes and communication” sections, Natalie is working on “Tools and Technologies” and “Testing”, with Elisha working on “Aims” and “Risks” and lastly, Felicia, who is working on the “Overview” and “Plans and Progress”. As a group, we agree that this is the easiest and most effective approach in terms of allocating the work, as each group member has flexibility, being able to choose what they like to work on based on their own personal interests. At the moment, we haven’t had any problems arise in terms of who will be doing what and we feel as if this is a more appropriate approach in comparison to having one person telling everyone what to do as it may result in conflict between group members. Not only is it more appropriate but it is also more consistent as the work done by each member is equal and consistent each week, as each person is assigned particular sections, meaning nobody is confused. 

