Elisha
Personal Info:
My name is Elisha Plessas, s3663327, I was born in Australia but am of European background, descendant of my grandparents who are native to greece. Ironically, i’m in my third year of an Applied science (psychology) bachelor's degree, being a student of an Information Technology class. Whilst I am unable to identify a specific interest in IT, I am, however, able to indistinctly recognise my interest in networking and development areas, whilst steering clear of anything coding related.

Team Profile:
Big Five:
This test categorises behavioural tendencies within five fundamental personality traits. The results of the Big Five indicate that I am open minded, which may allow me to better engage with others within a team environment. I have a lack of conscientiousness which may present as an obstacle within my team, as my unreliability and disorganisation may hold me back from work submissions and deadlines, therefore letting not only myself down but my group. The test also states that I am inherently introverted which may also hold me back in terms of fulfilling my potential within a group context. This insight into my personality may be useful when establishing a group, as it would be in my best interest to form a group consisting of personalities that may complement facets of my own. As I am low in conscientiousness, perhaps forming a group consisting of high conscientiousness people will provide me with the structure and organisation I need.

Myers-Briggs:
This tests classifies my personality at INFP; introverted, intuitive, feeling, perceiving. Sensitivity, creativity and loyalty are just a few personality traits inherent of my personality type. It describes my personality as valuing freedom, choice and flexibility. Within a team environment, this may hold me back in that I may not have the creative freedom to fully express my ideas and fulfill my potential. It would be in mine and my teams best interest to coordinate with those who fall into the ‘open-mindedness’ personality type, and are willing to pursue any concepts I may put forward.

Dark Triad:
Whilst information provided by this test may not be of direct insight into my personality, it identifies any malevolent connotations to my personality such as machiavellianism, narcissism and psychopathy. Whilst I am quite low scoring in narcissism and psychopathy, I did indicate a higher result in machiavellianism which is the tendency to manipulate those around me. This may suggest certain behavioural tendencies I may be inclined to act out within a group context. For others in my group to take this test would provide some insight into the inner workings of these members of the team and potentially an explanation into group dynamics. In terms of member selection, it would be wise to steer clear of any high scorers on this test.

Ideal Job 
The position of ‘General Manager – Tech / Managed Services Company’ is a leadership position in the field of IT for a private organisation within western Sydney suburbs. Strong interpersonal communication skills are applied within a working environment in order to lead a team and direct this organisation. This senior role entails establishing business plans and budgets whilst overseeing staff duties. If for nothing else, the appealing salary package of 220K significantly interests me.

A strong managerial background is required in order to be considered for this position. As well the ability to unite coworkers and employees based on exceptional communication skills. The candidate will have extensive experience in the technology industry and possess the commitment and values to see extensive growth in both the company’s revenue and market share.

I have a long road ahead of me if I want to fit the criteria of this position. Whilst I may possess some of the necessary skills such as communication abilities, all other requirements of the job, I am severely lacking in; which I would come to expect from most university students. I have no experience in managerial positions, nor do I have a background in any IT work, unless you count an IT unit at university. 

If I want to come even close to being a viable candidate for this position, I need to graduate from university. Perhaps apply for graduate programs and positions and start an entry level position to further develop my communication skills and broaden my horizons whilst establishing connections. I’ll work hard and over time i’ll scale the ranks within the organisation and hopefully gain some experience in a managerial position. This will help to develop my leadership skills, and get a feel for working with and relying on others. With a lot of time and dedication perhaps one day I will be fully equipped to undertake a position as such. 

In contrast to my team member’s ideal job’s, my ideal job description is quite a senior role. Although the position is for a tech company, according to the job description, it is clear that it is not an IT focussed position so much as it is a general managerial one. Whilst Aldin’s job focus was in the field of application development, mobile apps to be specific; Natalie’s ideal job is more web interface oriented and Felicia’s is within software development. These are dramatic contrasts to my ideal job position in that whilst they all have the commonality of a general IT basis, they are all essentially completely different fields of work.


IT Technologies

HOMEPAGE INFO: Public-key cryptography is on the way to revolutionising the ways of modern currency exchange. Crypto currencies such as Bitcoin, Litecoin a Ethereum are only a few cryptocurrencies that are dominating the market and threatening the redundancy of banks and physical cash. These cashless currencies are setting the standards of modern monetary exchange and are the future of money. Click here to read more 


Blockchain and cryptocurrencies:
Cryptocurrencies are digital forms of assets, used as means of monetary currency exchange minus the physical aspect of traditional methods of currency trade. Although cryptocurrency does not physically exist anywhere, is is not without value and stands alone as a form of currency. Virtual currencies differ from traditional means of physical monetary exchange as they use alternate means of transaction approval to centralised economic banking systems and is much more efficient. Where banks act as the middleman in authorising and approving transactions in a centralised manner; cryptocurrencies secure their transactions via decentralised methods. 

All cryptocurrency transactions are recorded and encrypted on a public ledger called a blockchain; the blockchain is an openly accessible network, available to the public. It is not run by one institution or authority, nor run on a central server. Whilst this may sound like a potential privacy issue, it is actually more secure as these transactions are resistant to alteration or modifications. Given its decentralisation, transaction approval times are not limited to the rigid and inflexible working hours that banks are, so the oversight of transactions occur much faster. All transactions must be validated, this is done by members of the general public via the blockchain. Essentially, individuals use high powered computers that run equation solving software to help verify and timestamp all transactions as quickly as possible so they can be added to the blockchain. As a reward for verifying transactions, these individuals, called ‘miners’, are awarded portions of cryptocurrency for being the first to approve the transaction. 

Cryptocurrencies are viewed as groundbreaking technology as they add aspects of anonymity, unlike traditional centralised banking. Individuals are able to transact with nothing more than a 26-35 character alphanumeric key that acts as a ‘wallet’, with no ties to their name.

Prospectively, cryptocurrencies can either collapse or the technology may be openly embraced and set the standard of modern monetary exchange. Their extreme efficiency meets the growing demands of modern productivity, and may see global reserve banks throughout the world establishing their own forms of cryptocurrency whereby traditional barriers inherent of these central banks are not limited to these transactions. This integration of cryptocurrencies into modern living may also see the end of physical forms of cash. In terms of physical use, there may be little difference between swiping a credit card linked to a bank account or tapping a phone linked to a cryptocurrency wallet; whilst providing the same cost efficiency and convenience as physical money. This cryptocurrency revolution will likely affect banks foremostly; however, large corporate retail conglomerates may be open to accepting cryptocurrencies as payment forms. Along with this revolution, countless jobs will be created as well as made redundant. On a personal level, cryptocurrencies may really only affect day to day individuals if retail giants begin to embrace the currency. Until then, as a full time student, I see no personal use I may have for digital currencies. For now, it is likely cryptocurrencies will predominantly be used on a corporate level for investing purposes rather than mainstream transacting means. 
