Project Idea: Book Tracking Application
Our project idea is for a book tracking application for IOS, android or desktop that allows the user to input the book's name, author, current and total page numbers, so they are able to track how fast they are reading their books. Tracking books can be useful to some people as it allows readers to have a database of all the books they've read within a series, or of a particular author. This means they will never accidently read the wrong book ahead of time, or they will be able to find new books from the same author or genre. This app would also allow students to input digital books including their school or university e-book and create bookmarks to save important material for later.
When the app is opened a list of all your current books will show up, with a addition icon in the upper right hand corner that will allow you to add new books to your list. Once selected another screen will pop up for the user to indicate the author, genre and total page numbers, this page also allows you to enter the number of pages you have already if you have forgotten to enter it previously. Once these details are entered, you can then hit the begin reading book. After each time you sit down and read some of the book, you simply open the app, select your book and enter the  number of pages you have read and save it. There are extra features that allow you bookmark digital books, designing custom layout of the app (such as categorise books in terms of genre or author) or creating a list of future books to be read. Another important feature is the ability to suggest similar books to a user, after gathering important information about what the user enjoys reading. This then links to where they can buy or read these books.
To create this app, a language such as JavaScript or Python would be very useful as they are very popular languages that many IT professionals have a good understanding of. App building software such as Buildfire.js would also be very handy. In terms of hardware, a smartphone, desktop or laptop is all that is required, as the app would be designed to run on all of these.
The outcome of this project will be ease of tracking books, and a highly customisable app which allows users to make the app comfortable for them and their uses. It can be used recreationally where users can easily add and track reading times and share books with friends. It can be used solely as an education app, where e-books are input into the system and bookmarks are created.
